Dream Machine: Firmware and Circuit Design for Lucid-Dreaming Goggles
=====================================================================

This is adapted from an [Instructables
project](http://www.instructables.com/id/The-Lucid-Dream-Machine/). With
a simple ATtiny13-based circuit, this firmware helps nudge your
dreaming brain into an *Inception*-like state of awareness. At least,
that's the theory. So far, I have slept through the whole experience
and remembered nothing.

Ingredients
===========

* ATtiny13 or 13A, set to the default 1.2MHz internal oscillator.

* Two through-hole LEDs, preferably red because that's supposed to get
  through your closed eyelids more easily.

* At least two resistors in the 50-250 ohm range, low enough that you
  can see the lights in the dark, but not so high that your battery
  dies quickly.

* A battery and a holder for it. I used a CR1220.

* A momentary normally-closed switch (optional).

* A slider switch or a jumper with a shunt (optional).

Operation
=========

When the circuit starts up, it lights both LEDs for about two seconds,
then turns them off and goes to sleep for about 3.5 hours. It wakes up
and pulses each LED, alternating back and forth at about 0.5Hz, for
about 30 seconds, then goes back to sleep for half the previous sleep
time (3.5 รท 2 = 1.75 hours). This cycle repeats, halving the sleep
time each cycle, with at least 4 minutes separating each LED-pulsing
phase.

Assuming about 8 hours of sleep starting at 10:30pm, this program will
first blink at about 2am, then will continue blinking more frequently
with a lot of blinking during the final hour of sleep. This pattern
corresponds to a typical human's REM-sleep schedule (short and sparse
at the beginning of sleep, long and frequent toward morning).

To see the LEDs blink immediately, hold down the button. This ends the
current sleep period.

Disclaimer
==========

As stated above, this project hasn't yet done anything for me. And if
for any reason you have problems wearing a circuit board on your head
at night or lights flashing in your eyes, you should probably avoid
this project.
